2023/09/11 16:24
Status: #idea
Tags:

# Key Ideas:

- "Journalism as a practice is unthinkable except in the context of democracy: in fact, journalism is usefully understood as another name for democracy"

# Consider and answer the following questions:

### What are the six or seven things he thinks that journalism can do for democracy? 

"The six functions journalism has frequently assumed in democratic societies, in different combinations and with different emphases are:"

- #### I - Information

	- The news media can provide fair and full information so citizens can make sound political choices
	
	- The educational function of journalism enables citizens to participate in self-government

- #### II - Investigation 

	- The news media can investigate concentrated sources of power, particularly governmental power
	 
	- Governors are the focus. All that is needed is to inspire the belief that an inner circle of attentive citizens is watchful
	 
	- Inspires a fear of public embarrassment, discrediting, controversy, legal prosecution, or fear of losing an election.
	
	- Nothing about journalism matters more than its obligation to hold government officials to the legal and moral standards of public service
	  

- #### III - Analysis
	
	- The news media can provide coherent frameworks of interpretation to help citizens comprehend a complex world
	
	- <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">Explanatory Journalism</mark> - When journalists explain a complicated event of process in a comprehensible narrative.

- #### IV - Social Empathy
	
	- Journalism can tell people about others in their society and their world so that they can come to appreciate the viewpoints and lives of other people, especially those less advantaged than themselves
	
	- Social Empathy is a surprisingly recent development in journalism
	
	- Shanto Iyengar and Donald Kinder: "Vividness Hypothesis"
		
		- Hypothesis is that the more vivid, dramatic, or emotionally compelling the text or image people are exposed to, the more it will influence them.
		
		- Conclusion is that "news stories that direct viewers' attention to the flesh and blood victims of national problems impersonally -- indeed, they tend to be less persuasive."
		
		- They speculate: viewers may blame the victims and see them as causes of their own misfortune
		
		- Perhaps the journalist's implicit or explicit thesis - these people are just like you etc. - is something that the viewers simply do not accept.

- #### V - Public Forum
	
	- Journalism can provide a forum for dialogue among citizens and serve as a common carrier of the perspectives of varies groups in society
	
	- The Internet has opened up this journalistic function in the most wide-ranging and profound way
	
	- Its virtue is not individual but social, the virtue of interaction, of conversation, of an easy and agreeable democratic sociability. 

- #### VI - Mobilization/Advocacy
	
	- The news media can serve as advocates for particular political programs and perspectives and mobilize people to act in support of these programs
	
	- Partisan journalism - refers to a style of news reporting and analysis that explicitly adheres to a particular political ideology or set of beliefs.
	
	- In the nineteenth-century journalism was doggedly partisan

- #### VII - Publicizing Representative Democracy

	- The role for journalism that was democratic but not populist, that regarded and respected constitutionalism and championed a strong role in representative democracies for the protection of minority rights.
	
	- Journalists should cover more carefully some institutions and relationships that today they take for granted or ignore 

### How, exactly, can journalism do those things? 

### Why is each important for a well functioning democracy?





---
# References

- Michael Schudson's 2008 book, _Why Democracies Need an Unlovable Press