2023/09/11 13:03
Status: #idea
Tags:

# Foundation of Ethical Journalism

Members of the Society of Professional Journalists believe that public enlightenment is the forerunner of justice and the foundation of democracy. Ethical journalism strives to ensure the free exchange of information that is accurate, fair and thorough. An ethical journalist acts with integrity.

### Seek Truth and Report It

- Take responsibility for the accuracy of their work. Verify information before releasing it. Use original sources whenever possible.

- Remember that neither speed nor format excuses inaccuracy. 

- Gather, update and correct information throughout the life of a news story.

- Identify sources clearly. The public is entitled to as much information as possible to judge the reliability and motivations of sources.

- Avoid stereotyping. Journalists should examine the ways their values and experiences may shape their reporting.

### Minimize Harm

- Pursuit of the news is not a license for arrogance or undue intrusiveness. 

- Recognize that legal access to information differs from an ethical justification to publish or broadcast.

- Realize that private people have a greater right to control information about themselves than public figures and others who seek power, influence or attention.

- Steer clear of reporting that exploits people's fascination with the lurid or taboo. 

### Act Independently

- Avoid conflicts of interest, real or perceived. Disclose unavoidable conflicts.

- Refuse gifts, favors, fees, free travel and special treatment, and avoid political and other outside activities that may compromise integrity or impartiality, or may damage credibility.

- Deny favored treatment to advertisers, donors or any other special interests, and resist internal and external pressure to influence coverage.

- Distinguish news from advertising and shun hybrids that blur the lines between the two. Prominently label sponsored content.

### Be Accountable and Transparent

- Respond quickly to questions about accuracy, clarity and fairness.

- Acknowledge mistakes and correct them promptly and prominently. Explain corrections and clarifications carefully and clearly.

- Expose unethical conduct in journalism, including within their organizations.

- Abide by the same high standards they expect of others.
---
# References

- https://www.spj.org/ethicscode.asp