
# Consider the following
- 1:36 — McChesney notes that “media has become an enormous industry in our society.” What impact was the growth in media _supposed_ to have on democracy? And what, on the other hand, does McChesney say has _really_ happened?
- 2:09 — Why does media ownership _seem_ unimportant? And why, according to McChesney, is it _actually_ important to pay attention to media ownership?
- 2:42 — According to McChesney, how is the U.S. media system organized? (or, at least, how _was_ it organized at the turn-of-the-century?) Why is it misleading to think that, because there are hundreds of thousands of media companies, that the system must be competitive and diverse? And why did McChesney think that the number of dominant media companies would continue to shrink?
- 4:11 — McChesney says that, “One of the striking features that explains media concentration is what we call media conglomeration.” What is a media conglomerate? Why does conglomeration (or “synergy”) make so much sense for media companies? And what effect has it had on independent media?
- 6:23 — Why does McChesney say that media companies have gotten so big in the last decade (i.e., in the 1990s and early 2000s)?
- 7:10 — What does McChesney say is a key “myth” about the U.S. media system and the government’s relationship to it? What role does he say government policy has _actually_ played in shaping the media system?
- 7:29 — When was the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) established? What — in theory — was the FCC supposed to do? How does McChesney think the FCC has done in that regard? And how is the relationship between big media and the government akin to the rooftop cake-cutting scene from _The Godfather Part II_?
- 9:02 — Why does McChesney think that the 1996 Telecommunications Act was “one of the most important laws of the past 50 years”? What was at stake? Why did the Act’s supporters think that deregulating media ownership (i.e., letting media companies merge with and acquire one another more easily) was a good thing? And why does McChesney think that the term “deregulation” is a misnomer?
- 10:51 — What two industries were specifically deregulated as a result of the 1996 Telecommunications Act? And was was the effect of deregulation on those two industries?
- 13:04 — How important does McChesney think that journalism is in a democracy? And what three things do democracies need from journalism? And what does McChesney argues has happened to journalism in the past 15 years? (i.e., from the late 1980s to early 2000s).
- 14:30 — The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution reads: “Congress shall make no law… abridging freedom of speech, or of the press…” According to McChesney, how have interpretations of the First Amendment changed between the 1790s and today? What key question about the First Amendment did the courts face in the early 20th century? And who did the courts ultimately decide that freedom of the press belongs to?
- 16:03 — According to McChesney, what pressure did news divisions face when they became part of large media conglomerates? And what effect has that had on journalistic resources and news coverage?
- 16:36 — According to Mark Crispin Miller, what “formula” do media companies follow to keep their stock prices high? And what kinds of stories does that formula prioritize — particularly at 24-hour news outlets?
- 18:11 — According to McChesney, what is the effect of these commercial pressures on journalism? How does coverage of the “War on Terror” illustrate the limitations of commercial journalism?
- 21:09 — According to Mark Crispin Miller, even if the people at the top of the media system were ideal human beings, the media concentration would still be a problem. Why?
- 21:35 — How does McChesney say that a healthy journalism system would cover corporate scandals, such as Enron and Worldcom? How does he say that the U.S. commercial news system actually covers those scandals? And how does that coverage compare to blue-collar crime?
- 23:42 — Both McChesney and Miller identify coverage of “free trade” as a particularly instructive illustration of the corrosive influence of corporate ownership on news coverage. How do they characterize the big media companies’ coverage of free trade? How are free trade’s opponents and their protests covered? And how does McChesney explain those coverage disparities?
- 27:14 — McChesney says that it’s easy to be “depressed or skeptical or even cynical about the prospects of changing media in the U.S.” So why is he optimistic about the potential to change the U.S. media system? But what does he say will be necessary to create a more democratic media system?